Welcome back.
I want to use a new library here now in our app right over here when we log in.
Ideally I want to have perhaps a profile picture and then if I click on and have dropdown where I can
say sign out or maybe profile and a profile pops up of the user and I want to use this re-act strap
component library we can simply install it by using the re-act strap package and as long as we're using
react.
It allows us to use Boost Japp for components.
And if you go to components you'll see that we can use a ton of things including the dropdown that I'm
interested in looking at.
That would be pretty nice to have on our profile and we see that it gives us a nice demo of what we
can do and gives you pretty much copy and paste code which is really really nice.
Now some of you might be asking why not just build this out ourselves.
One is that well it's going to be a lot faster than building it out ourselves.
And this is something that we can do fairly simply with some javascript and CSSA something that we've
already covered before in my previous courses.
But also when it comes to building fast and making sure that our app works we don't really want to worry
too much about having a proper drop down functionality.
We can just put in pieces into our app and then if we really want to remove libraries we can do so afterwards.
But I also want to show you the dangers of adding third party libraries as you'll see when we add Riak
strop.
It's going to conflict with a library.
We already have one that is called If we go back to our Front-End application and go into our source
indexed.
Yes we're using Tatiana's SPSS libraries.
That has solved their app.
Up until this point and I'm going to demonstrate for you why we want to be careful when we're just grabbing
more and more libraries adding them onto our project.
So I think it's going to be a good lesson for us as well.
All right well we know that we want to install this package so let's just say NPM install and it's going
to be called re-act strap.
All right.
Perfect.
The next thing we want to do.
Again going back to the Web site we also see here that we need to add bootstrap because the re-act strap
package comes with the components but not with the styling that is bootstrap.
So just to get the styling that they already have preset it looks like we can just NPM install boot
strap.
And if you're using a newer version of NPM you don't need to do dash dash save but just to show you
that it's the same thing.
I'm going to copy that.
And then let's bring our front end up over here.
So it's a little bit closer since we'll be working on that in this video.
So we're installing bootstrap and then going back here we see that we need to import our CSA.
And from there we can start importing whatever components that re-access shop needs.
Now let's import the CSSA file.
And if you see over here we now can go into our index page yes and import bootstrap with the M. fide
see SS.
Now here's the thing and here's how things work with create re-act up and they grab all the CSSA files
that it finds and bundles them together.
So right now the way we have things taxman's which already has some CSSA classes that we're going to
be using if you go into dodgiest for example or actually let's go into a component let's say we're going
to go into the face recognition we see over here that we're using these classes like empty to center
Amay that are actual Tatian classes.
Now because of the way create react up works these hearings are bundled and then the bootstrap cells
are going to get bundled and whatever name clashes they might have.
Let's say that both of them have a button class.
Well the bootstrap one is going to overwrite it because it's going to be after Tatiana's.
And we know that we like our app the way it is.
So let's move this up here so that if there is anything that's being overwritten with DSS Tatiana's
is going to win out.
So let's say that we have bootstrap all loaded and ready to go.
I think it's time for us to build our drop down functionality.
So now that we have some components that we're going to be able to use.
We also have Takiyama set up.
The first thing I want to do is create perhaps an avatar or a profile little circle icon on the top
right so that when we click on it it's going to have a drop down box that says View profile or sign
out now.
Luckily for us we're going to be using taxman's as well because they already have some pre-built CSSA
for us.
If I go back here I have tacked Kyon's And if we go to Avatar's we see that all right we have a couple
of options that we can use.
So say we want to use the circle border and look of that we already have the CSSA that we need for it.
Let's go back to our app and have this circle appear if we log in here
right over here and see that of the sign out and just so we don't have to keep signing in and out in
and out in and out.
Let's go back and go to our app.
Yes and in our initial state make our route equal to home I save this and go back let's refresh Lupe's
I have to do NPM start again.
Well I have to go NPM start again because we did install some things
yes sport 3000 and won
and there we go.
We're logged in now.
We don't have a user you see that it's completely blank because we haven't logged in with anything.
We all have that profile information but we also see that our stalling just got messed up quite a lot
actually.
We don't have that nice styling that we had before.
What's happening here.
Well again back to our discussion about CSSA.
You see that index starts CSSA is right at the top here.
And if you look at index Nazi SS our phone family was described in here and the bootstrap library we
just installed and added to our Web site is overwriting our font family again.
Do you want to do is ideally bring that CSSA all the way down.
And also just keep CSSA together in a separate little section so that you know what's overwriting what.
And again going back to just keep adding things over and over.
This is a small enough app that we notice the changes right away.
But as soon as you introduce a third party library and especially one that affects CSSA you might unintentionally
change some of your webapp functionality as well as look.
So you really want to be careful with this in a real project.
I probably wouldn't be using these multiple libraries but I wanted to demonstrate that how dangerous
it can be if I save this now and go back.
All right.
Everything is nice and smooth.
We don't have the user yet because well we're kind of cheating and signing in but we have our set up
all done.
And ideally we want this profile like on that we saw an attack on us right here at the top and then
if I click on it a dropdown menu shows up.
So let's think about this the first thing we probably want to do is to build that profile icon that
circular icon.
And just to keep things clean let's create a new folder called at Profile and within this folder we'll
create a new component.
We'll say that this will be their profile icon component and we're here we can do our regular component
and build that we do with react.
We want to import re-act from their reata package.
We also want to import some items from re-act bootstrap.
But the doggo function let's not worry about it for now let's just work on getting that circular avatar
on our page.
We can just say class profile icon extends re-act dot component or I could just do something like this
as well.
But for now this is fine.
And we want to export default the profile icon.
All right.
Now thinking about this icon this icon over here has the bit state right.
It's either or clicked on and the toggle is open or it's closed and ideally I mean that's a simple true
or false Boolean flag.
We could move that all the way up to dog yes or include a redux store to contain that state but for
small state that is really very specific to this profile icon and doesn't affect any other components.
I like to keep the state in here because anybody that comes on to the project and needs to just something
on the profile icon has everything in one place.
So let's create our constructor method that will accept prop's and do our regular super call.
And let's just say that this dot state is going to equal the let's call it drop down open and we'll
set it to false to begin with.
All right.
And we also have our render function and within this render function what should we do.
Well let's get our profile avatar from Tatiana's Well returned
and let's say within here if we go back to taxations we can just copy and paste this little snippet
pasted on here you got to fix this.
And you see that the div is not highlighted and bread and that's because this is GSX.
Remember we have to make sure that we close our tags.
Even though this is valid to him all five without the closing slash and GSX we have to close our tags
no matter what.
Right.
So let's say that.
And if I go back.
Well nothing's going to be shown.
We have to actually import this in our homepage.
Let's actually import this in our page.
If we go back to our app we see that we have this area that we want to have to do and this area is where
the sign and register component are.
Luckily for us that's just right at the top over here and the navigation component.
And because of a name it's fairly easy to see and we see over here that this is just adding the sign
out sign in register components.
Let's actually add this let's add the import whoops and port the profile icon from the profile capital
profile and let's say profil.
Now we have access to this component within the is signed in.
Instead of having the sign out or for an hour we can keep the sign out just to have it there we'll add
a profile icon.
And right now it doesn't really do anything.
So we're just going to pass it like that.
Let's save looks like everything is fine.
If I go back and refresh Let's see over here and you see that it's checking is signed in we're not checking
the route we're checking to make sure that is signed in is true.
So we have to go back to us make sure that is signed in is set to true so that our navigation bar also
changes.
Hey look at that.
We have a nice little avatar here.
All set up for us.
Let's take a break in the next video.
We're going to keep adding onto this functionality make it look a little bit pretty year and hopefully
at our dropdown menu.
I'll see you on that one.
All right.